- [lofty string music playing]
- [stone clattering and rumbling]
[Tobias] "Made of earth and stone."
- "A snow-clad heart."
- [heartbeat thumping]
"And icy bones."
From the depths of the mountains.
the trolls rose.
[deep roar]
For a long time.
humans and trolls lived side by side…
[mooing]
…in perfect harmony.
Until a new world order crept over Europe.
[music turns sinister]
In Norway. a young king was assigned
to Christianize the country…
Olaf the Holy.
The new faith had no room
for primordial beings of the Earth.
From the safety of their dark forests.
Olaf drove them out into the sunlight.
where they were turned to stone.
With sword and bible in hand.
Olaf scoured the land of trolls.
[distant wailing]
As the massacre progressed.
the trolls grew wary
of the sanctity of Christianity.
The age of the trolls
was over.
Olaf showed no mercy.
slaughtering everyone.
both adults and children...
And let's pause the story there. alright?
But Mama. this is the part
about the troll mass a-cred.
- Massacre.
- [chuckles]
Papa… that Olaf the Holy.
what's wrong with him?
The trolls were there first!
Yes. exactly.
The trolls needed our help
for them to survive.
- That's what I would do.
- I know. Nora.
No one stood up against the narrow-minded
humans to protect the trolls.
Okay. I would leave now.
before I toss your butt
out of here myself. Tidemann.
- [laughing]
- We'll save the rest for later.
Good night. Tiny.
Good night. Big.
"Troll massacre?"
I could've went with
Askeladden's eating contest.
where the troll guts itself
so its entrails spill out.
[laughs. coughs]
[coughing weakly]
You okay. sweetie?
You're okay?
Don't worry about it. I'm fine.
- Are you sure?
- Promise.
[Nora] Mama?
Mm?
The troll wedding story…
- You remember it. right?
- Mm-hmm.
Do you really think that mean
Olaf chased them up there?
- Mm-hmm. [Chuckles]
- And that's why they died up there?
Yeah.
I think it's a possibility he did. right?
- [Nora] Mm-hmm.
- Absolutely.
- Out.
- [chuckles]
[Nora chuckles]
One day we'll go see it. Nora.
The Troll Wall.
- You promise?
- Mm-hmm.
Promise.
Sleep now.
I'm not tired.
Can you sing a song?
Please?
♪ When Troll Mama tucks in  ♪
♪ Her 11 small trolls  ♪
♪ And ties them all together  ♪
♪ By their tails  ♪
♪ She sings a sweet little song  ♪
♪ To her 11 small trolls  ♪
♪ The most beautiful words  ♪
♪ That she knows  ♪
♪ Ho ai ai ai ai boff  ♪
♪ Ho ai ai ai ai boff…  ♪
[dark music rises]
♪ Ho ai ai ai ai boff  ♪
[music fades]
30 YEARS LATER
[vocalizing fades]
[soaring string music rises]
[wind whipping]
[wind whistling outside]
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
[thumping]
- [rattling]
- [thumping]
[pounding on door]
[wind whistling]
- [door shuts]
- [floorboards creaking]
[breathes deeply]
[tense music playing]
Hello?
No!
- [grunting]
- [yelping. whimpering]
[muffled] Nora. Nora!
Wait. it's me! It's me!
It's me!
Andreas Isaksen?
[trembling breath]
- It's been a while.
- Uh-huh.
I… I came here by myself.
The Tidemann hospitality
is alive and well.
Yeah. well…
I don't get visitors that often.
I guess not.
You're out here alone.
What you been up to?
Since we last talked?
Listen. Andreas.
I mean no offense.
And it's great to see you again. really.
But now. just tell me why you're here.
I. um…
ON THE TRAIL OF SAINT OLAF'S TOMB
Uh…
I hoped you could help us solve a problem.
Us?
Uh. yeah…
Is it a national security thing?
It's a secret.
and I'm supposed to go somewhere?
Um…
Well…
- You said that life was behind you. right?
- Yeah. I thought it was. I really did.
But just when you think you're out.
they pull you back in. right?
Things are different now.
A new government.
THE PALACE DENIES ACCUSATIONS
- New prime minister.
- Yeah. right.
It doesn't matter who's in power.
It's still the old guard.
WITHDRAWS FROM TROLL COMMISSION
[Andreas] Hmm.
RESTRAINING ORDER FROM THE PALACE
A FISTFUL OF ZEN
[chuckles softly]
You wasted your time coming out here.
Ha ha!
[chuckles]
I didn't know the definition of pain until
12-year-old TikTokers reviewed my book.
I haven't had time…
- No. I get it. It's no biggie.
- I've been…
I saw you dedicated it to Papa.
That's really sweet.
He'd have liked that.
Honestly.
I think he'd like to see
what I want to show you.
I'm confused.
What we found…
Is there… more?
What the hell…
- [blades thwacking]
- [rousing music plays]
[music fades]
Uh… It's just a formality.
You really think that my signing this
will stop me from speaking after?
Not really.
But if you speak about this. Nora.
people are definitely gonna think
that you've gone mad.
Thanks.
TINY TROLLY MOLLY
Vemork?
VEMORK POWER STATION
[music fades]
Professor Sinkhole?
Right. you need no introductions
to Professors Møller and Wangel.
Professor Tidemann. Welcome to Vemork.
I know this might come
as a bit of a shock.
Yeah. you could say that.
Professor. it's a great regret of mine
that we started
on such bad terms last time…
At the time. the government didn't have
security clearance for Project Jotun
and the information we've gathered.
Yeah. but over time some secrets come out.
- Sooner or later.
- Yeah.
Like trolls in sunlight.
[men laugh]
What are you talking about?
Someone has always known about it.
We have all heard about what happened
in Vemork during World War II.
The Heroes of Telemark.
The race to create the first atomic bomb.
The heavy water sabotage operation
to foil Hitler's plans.
A cover-up…
for what the mission was really about.
[door buzzing]
The operation. Professor Tidemann.
was never about the heavy water.
[lofty music rises]
That's her.
[workers chattering indistinctly]
[light beeping]
- [chattering]
- [soft clicking]
Those who found him a century ago
named him Jotun.
after the primeval trolls from mythology.
But I…
I call him
Mega-troll.
Of course. we have safeguards in place.
- For security.
- UV lights are pointed at the troll.
Powerful enough to turn
it into stone instantly.
[Wangel] Inspired by
your creative solution in Oslo.
Mm-hm.
Have you all lost your minds?
- Do we have a visitor?
- [Nora] What is this?
[Andreas] Oh. Uh…
- Yes. Let me introduce Professor...
- Marion Auryn Rhadani.
I'm the project leader.
This is the legendary
Professor Nora Tidemann.
Of course I know who you are.
[in Farsi] I thought we agreed
not to involve her.
- [chuckles]
- [Marion] Hmm?
[in Farsi] If we don't show
any progress soon.
they'll shut down the whole project.
[in English] Sorry. what did you say?
My apologies. Farsi.
I learned when I was in college.
But Professor Rhadani
is an evolutionary biologist.
so she's been leading
this research for almost...
- Two years.
The past two years. yeah.
And Andreas has told us
all about your work
and your heroics in Oslo.
Of course. it's not the outcome
that I would have liked.
A conscious troll would have provided
many more useful answers.
Okay. so… he's not dead?
No. Hibernating.
Ever since it was discovered here.
the only sign of life is a pulse.
Some kind of heart is hidden inside there.
But it's unique.
It's unlike any animal on the planet.
The closest thing that I could ascribe
to it would be the forest floor.
Yeah. the DNA's a mystery.
It's more spruce tree than human.
[scoffs] They are nature.
They're what?
Trolls are nature.
"Made of earth and stone."
- "A snow-clad heart and... "
- "Snow-clad heart and icy bones."
A kids' nursery rhyme.
Hm. Okay.
Right. Are we finished here?
What? No!
You… you haven't seen it all.
Don't go yet. Come. come.
Welcome to the Nerd Room.
Nora! Hi.
Siggy!
It's mine. [Laughs]
- That is… ours.
- [chuckles]
- Really?
- Well. we weren't romantic at the start.
No. but it became that way.
obviously. right?
- Yeah. obviously.
- [Andreas laughs]
Now. it became
this itty bitty creature. in here.
A little nilbog.
"Leonard" if it's a boy.
And if it's a girl. we'll name her Uhura.
Hm. [Chuckles]
Congratulations.
Thank you.
But… but that's not what
I wanted you to see.
Look around.
In this area. we have texts written
in Latin. Old Norse. Sanskrit. and runes.
Some of them predate Christ.
And…
All about trolls.
See that?
Olaf the Holy's Troll Law.
Huh?
Its carbon date is around 1030.
Before he fell in the Battle
of Stiklestad. Just before or after.
Well. um… not after. right?
[chuckles] He wouldn't be signing
anything from the grave. Yeah?
[scoffs lightly]
[Sigrid] It's been verified.
That's… that's the real deal.
[Andreas] It's clear
what his intention was.
Even though half
of the document's missing.
"Trolls shall…"
Hereby be expelled
"from this land."
[dark music plays]
Papa was right.
We know there was a troll from Dovre.
We have our troll here.
It's safe to assume that there may be more
trolls out there. We don't know how many.
- There's a very real chance…
- That another troll goes berserk.
We have to be prepared.
If we're going to be ready.
first we need to…
Understand more.
We have so many resources here to utilize.
but despite that.
the progress of our research has stopped.
They're threatening to shut us down.
We need someone who thinks out of the box.
We need the great Professor Nora Tidemann.
[stirring music plays]
[sighs]
I. uh…
I just need a second to process this.
I really need to use the restroom.
Is one nearby?
Downstairs. You'll see the sign.
One floor down.
I could sprint down there blindfolded.
I'm peeing every…
- One floor down. then right.
- Okay. Thank you.
I've rewritten this report 11 times.
There's always something.
[tense music playing]
[exhales]
I wonder who you are.
[deep rumbling resonates]
[Nora humming tune]
[grunts]
[slurps]
Ow.
[chimes. trilling]
[beeping]
[tense music rises]
[humming tune]
[deep rumbling]
[shuffling. cracking]
[exhales sharply]
[alarms blaring]
What was that?
An awakening.
[tense music builds]
[deep rumbling]
[chuckling exhale]
[alarms blaring]
[chains rattling]
[alerts intensify]
Set the UV lights to standby.
- Activate them on my signal.
- Yeah.
[machinery powering up]
- [clanging]
- [thrumming]
Not yet. Wait.
Siggy. Siggy.
This doesn't feel right.
- [beeping]
- [tech] Ready.
- Take your hand off.
- Huh?
- What's the problem?
- We can't destroy it now.
Are you crazy? It's finally awake.
- [chains rattling]
- [alarms beeping]
- Now!
- Wait. you can't.
Do it!
- [gasping]
- [electronic whine]
[machinery powering down]
- [clanking]
- [thrumming fades]
[alarm blaring]
Nora!
Come down here now!
[deep groan]
[grunts]
[stone grinding]
Siggy. time to go. Time to go.
Everybody out! Everybody out!
Everybody out!
- [clamoring]
- [thrilling music plays]
Nora!
- [clanging]
- [Nora screams]
Come on. Siggy! Run!
- [deep roar]
- [Marion shouts]
- Marion! Take Siggy with you!
- Yeah. Siggy. come on!
Nora!
[grunts] Nora. come on.
[deep roaring]
[gasps]
[both gasping]
Huh.
- [people screaming]
- Ugh!
[fierce roaring]
- Andreas!
- [gasping]
[suspenseful music plays]
Go!
Siggy. are you all right?
Come on. Come on!
[deep rumbling]
[roaring]
[panting]
[snorts]
Dear God.
How did you do that?
[panting]
[exciting music playing]
AIR FORCE BASE
[music fades]
Captain Kris.
Nora Tidemann.
I should have known.
And Isaksen. tagging along as usual.
Good to see you're not alone.
Holm.
Everybody on board.
Hi.
Hey there.
- Here.
- Yeah.
- Thanks.
- My pleasure.
A new girl.
But Captain Kris is the same guy.
Actually I'm a… major now.
Kris the major?
Yeah.
Feel free to call me whatever.
[engine revs]
This research could lead to breakthroughs
in medical science. Climate change...
You treat him like he's a being
with no inherent value.
You haven't looked at the implications.
Problem with your stupid implications is
placing humans over other sentient beings.
- It's a recipe...
- You are both right.
Andreas. stay out of this!
[Nora] Every living being has
inherent value and deserves respect.
It's eerily similar to
my parents' split-up.
[Nora] You can't be so narrow-minded.
You're ignoring what's self-evident.
That this is a living being with feelings.
- Your head is so far up your...
- [beeping]
- [Kris] Prime Minister.
- Major Holm.
General.
Prime Minister Brinchmann.
meet Nora Tidemann.
Right.
- Professor Tidemann.
- Hi.
- Rhadani.
- Hi. Martin.
- Right. Isaksen.
- Prime Minister.
And you are…
[mouth full] I'm Hodne. Staff Sergeant.
Pleasure's all mine.
Uh. sir. she's pregnant.
Yeah.
[chairs scraping]
Mm…
Ever since government officials and I
got the details surrounding Project Jotun.
I believed the risks involved
were too high.
And the incident today.
it proves that I was right.
Martin. I have another idea.
There's potentially
a great opportunity here.
It's my view. if there's a chance
that we can capture it
and get it under our control.
we can continue...
There's no controlling natural forces.
You can't go forward with that plan.
- That's my...
- Okay. well… what's your plan. then?
- Allow it to go free? Free to roam around?
- I didn't say that.
- Explain it. Tell us.
- I'm pointing to a problem...
I know this research could be of value.
but I have to put Norwegian lives first.
Therefore. I'm doing
what I should have done initially.
I want the troll terminated.
effective immediately.
Mmm.
- Oh my God.
- [scoffs]
Okay. so this time we're all
gonna repeat the same mistakes?
Turn an innocent troll
to stone because of us.
You're saying you've learned
nothing from Dovre?
Three years ago. I lost my brother
in a helicopter accident.
It was… a military operation
someone suggested.
using church bells.
I won't repeat the mistakes
of the last prime minister.
Major Holm. join us to debrief.
Copy that. General.
[door opens]
[chattering outside]
[door closes]
Hey. is… is that a… a piece of…
It's a piece of guilty conscience.
I screwed up. and it's a reminder.
I have a talent for screwing up.
But. as the. uh… the fairy tales tell us.
learn from mistakes…
[light. dramatic music plays]
Grow stronger…
And keep fighting.
Hmm?
Where are you going?
On an adventure.
Hey. ho.
Let's go!
[Kris] We tracked the troll
and lost him in the fog.
but it will clear up this evening.
- Around sunset...
- [door opens loudly]
Losing the sun means
the enemy can move freely.
- So time is of the...
- [door slams]
Time's of the essence.
Aw-Geedi.
Time to put our new toys to the test.
[chuckles]
Everyone ready in 30. Execute.
[chattering]
- Kris?
- No.
- I haven't told you what...
- I said no.
Check the intel again.
I want us airborne in 45.
- [man] Copy that.
- Amir!
- Nice to see you again.
- [Amir] Mm-hmm.
Right. From Oslo.
- Of course. I remember.
- That's great. Hey…
- Yeah?
- Last time. you were a scientific advisor.
Technically. Ish.
It would be irresponsible for a major
to take civilians on a mission.
Come on. Major. schmajor. stop with that.
- We have a troll roaming around.
- Sorry. it's time to go.
Seeing you two together
again turns my stomach.
- It's not exactly ideal.
- Copy that.
[Nora] Kris!
You owe it to my dad!
It's not like that.
I wasn't insinuating that you…
No. that came out wrong. I meant to say...
Lives were lost.
and I have to live with that.
I messed up.
had bad judgment.
I won't make that mistake now.
My father was the happiest
when he died that day.
[soft music playing]
We gave him that.
I…
Uh… I dedicated my life to this.
Please. Kris.
Fine. But only...
[clanging. clattering]
[clears throat]
[chuckling scoff]
You'll stay in the background
and do what I say.
- Are we on the same page?
- Yeah. absolutely.
What's the plan. then?
[tense music plays]
The military's new SUNNA helicopter.
Custom-made build for troll hunting.
Equipped with UV lights powerful
enough to make crispy troll fries.
SUNNA… Old Norse for "sun."
- Cool.
- Yeah. we think so too.
And now. we have… a lean. mean.
[both] …troll-killing machine!
- Oof…
- I hope you brought sunscreen.
[Marion] Hey! Room for one more?
[funky music playing]
You mind if I tag along?
I kinda feel like it's my troll.
The more. the merrier.
Oh. thanks.
I never heard of a major going on
a mission like this. Is it normal?
I'm more of the hands-on type.
You know the deal.
Everybody on board.
He's flirting with me. right?
Better get used to it.
Kris?
[music fades]
Promise you'll return the same height
and intact. Andropholus Maximus.
Hey… Siggy Starcrash…
I swear I will.
You hear that?
My little stardust love.
- [squealing]
- [inhales sharply]
[laughing]
Isaksen! Get your butt in gear
if you're coming!
Don't try to be a hero. okay?
You're Clark Kent. not Superman.
I'll be back again before you know it!
Love you.
[gentle music playing]
HEMSEDAL SKI RESORT
["Pinne for Landet" by Freddy Kalas plays]
[crowd singing along]
Keep it open. cool?
Yeah! I love it!
- [song picks up]
- [crowd shouting]
[deep rumbling]
- [chanting dies down]
- [music fades out]
[partygoers gasping]
[feedback whining]
- [cracking]
- [screaming]
[scattered screams]
[creaking]
[low rumble]
[crumbling. cracking]
[sinister music plays]
[light clamoring]
[man screaming]
[woman] Aw. how cute!
- Your mom's here?
- [man] Shut up. bro.
[low snarl]
[heavy roar]
[all screaming]
- [yells]
- [grunts]
[chaotic music playing]
[clamoring]
- [screaming]
- Help!
[woman shouts]
- [roars]
- [screams]
[muffled shouting]
[screaming]
[chaotic music intensifies]
[grunts. groans]
[screaming]
[woman screams]
[munching]
[rousing music plays]
Amir. what do you think?
Looks like the party's over. bro!
It's eating them!
Oh. my God!
Tidemann! Sit down now.
Don't worry I'm fine.
Safety procedures.
Standby for my command.
Whenever you're ready.
[dramatic music rises]
Let there be light.
[machinery powering up]
- [deep thrum]
- And there was…
- [clanks]
- [thrumming]
- Whoo!
[roaring]
We're going in!
[groaning]
[sizzling]
[groans]
We're cookin' now.
[laughing]
[Kris] Hard right.
Hard right!
Kris.
Give the troll space.
- [wailing]
- [sizzling]
Burn. baby. burn!
Ugh!
- [thud]
- [gasps]
- [crashes]
- [gasping]
[alarm beeping]
[backfiring. hissing]
[alerts wailing]
[heavy clanking]
Status. Amir?
- [sighs]
- [alerts whooping]
[thrumming dies down]
Amir?
Kris.
It was an honor. brother.
[clanging]
- [blades thwacking]
- [wind whooshing]
Amir!
[praying]
[heavy rumbling resonates]
- [exhales]
- Kris?
Kris.
[exhales]
Kristoffer?
[alert beeping]
Don't do anything stupid. alright?
[grunting]
[grunts. snarls softly]
Major Holm!
[snarls menacingly]
[screaming intensely]
Please. sir. I can assure you.
we have everything under control.
[door beeping]
Involving NATO at this point
would only cause…
Mr. President.
I'm afraid I will have to call you back.
[door shuts]
[sirens wailing]
[somber music playing]
Allah Yerhamo. Amir Aw-Geedi…
My brother.
I… I wasn't aware
they were such ruthless. um…
Killing machines.
Not all of them are like that.
Okay?
This one is acting different
than the troll from three years ago.
The reports I read talked about how
it killed both civilians and soldiers.
Yeah. but those reports never
said what he wanted.
To get back home.
"Home."
Yeah.
I think you should try a little harder
not to humanize these monsters. okay?
If it's a monster. it's because of man.
- It's our doing.
- We haven't done any harm to it.
Not us. directly. Men who lived before us.
It's not like you've helped with how you
prodded and experimented on him for years.
I'll make sure to say sorry to it
when I see it.
Can we do that?
Can we communicate with it?
Yeah. We'll use our grown-up voices
and tell it to stop.
I have an idea of someone who can.
[uplifting music builds slowly]
RESTRICTED MILITARY AREA
AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL ONLY
[wind howling]
DOVRE MOUNTAINS
[music fades]
Here.
Oh. Ooh!
[both grunt]
Thank you. Kris… toffer.
You guys coming?
Of course.
Didn't the army do a thorough search
of this area three years ago?
Yeah.
They sure did.
ODDRUN. LARS. AND SOLO
A bit more to the left? Okay. How's that?
[barking]
Yeah. [Sniffs]
- That'll do.
- [barks]
I think Oddrun is gonna be overjoyed.
[ringtone playing]
Well. speak of the angel.
- [Oddrun] Hello? Can you hear me?
- Huh? Yeah. yeah. I can hear you.
Lars. honey. you have to say hello
when you pick up the phone.
- Yeah. I know. Hello?
- [dog whining softly]
- I found the wallpaper for the bedroom.
- That's great.
Is there anything else
I should get while I'm here?
I can't hear anything you're saying.
Sorry. Solo's acting up.
He's barking like crazy. What's going on?
[barks. whimpers]
Is there anything else
I should get while I'm here?
[sinister music playing]
[whines]
- [barking]
- Lars?
- Lars…
- [crashing]
[dog barking]
Lars?
Lars. we only needed the wallpaper. right?
- Oddrun…
- Yeah.
I think we need more than wallpaper. dear.
[creaking. clattering]
I'm really sorry about your friend Amir.
Thanks.
Maybe I shouldn't have brought it up now.
- I'm sorry. Bad timing.
- No. it's fine.
He was…
He was my brother
from another mother.
[chuckles]
- Our childhoods were similar.
- I see.
Our families were…
Tough.
Oh.
[chuckles lightly]
I don't know why I'm telling you all this.
No. it's refreshing.
It seems to me like
there's a really big heart
hiding underneath
that… really cool. um. uniform.
[chuckles lightly]
[Andreas] Eww…
Oh. God. What happened in here?
It's a hunting pit.
According to the legend.
they wanted to get rid of the Troll King.
so they kidnapped a troll child.
so the father would follow it here.
[distant groaning echoes]
[Nora] Straight into a death trap.
[distant wailing echoes]
There are symbols carved in.
[Nora] They're Christian symbols.
They're carved into each spike.
to inflict more damage on the trolls.
But the Troll King survived the trap.
He escaped three years ago.
But if the story's true.
the question remains.
Why weren't the remains
of the captured troll child ever found?
Hold still.
Stay there.
[tapping echoes]
[distant low rumble]
[stone tapping]
Don't freak out.
Just. uh…
Try remaining calm. okay?
It's hypernature.
[cracking. rumbling]
[dark music plays]
[Nora] Shh.
- Shh. Kris.
- Whoa.
Lower your weapon.
Put it down carefully.
- [groans]
- Don't shine light in the troll's eyes.
You're okay.
[rumbling]
[sighs]
- [exhales]
- [Nora] Keep still.
[rumbling snort]
[low bellowing]
I searched here dozens of times
and couldn't find anything.
But he didn't feel safe.
He was watching from the dark.
- Is it really…?
- Yeah.
He's the son of the Mountain King.
[deep sighing]
[sniffs. grunts]
Hi there. Beautiful.
[sighing softly]
[hopeful music playing]
[Nora humming tune]
[troll harmonizing with Nora]
- [bellows]
- [chuckles]
[sniffles]
Nora Tidemann.
troll whisperer.
[chuckling]
How'd you do that?
I know it sounds crazy. but I… feel it.
I feel it.
It's a mystery.
[troll grunting]
Come. It's all right.
[low rumbling]
[Nora] Don't think.
Just feel.
[swallows]
[humming tune]
[troll harmonizing]
[bellowing]
[breathing shakily]
- [all laughing softly]
- [uplifting music plays]
[troll exclaims]
Hello.
What do I call you?
I've been calling him Beautiful.
Beautiful.
- It's a pleasure.
- [Beautiful bellows]
Magical.
[Beautiful sighs]
[laughing]
So. uh…
The next part is difficult.
There's someone
that only you can talk to. so…
[Beautiful bellows]
I need to ask a favor.
and this one's pretty big.
[exclaiming]
Hmm?
[wind whistling]
[distant thumping]
[low rumbling]
[low growl]
[snarls]
[exchanging deep snarls]
It's their fight this time.
[roars]
[bellows]
[roaring]
We're going. Start it up.
[roars fiercely]
[Andreas] Nora!
- Run!
- Get to the bird!
[thrilling music plays]
[shouts]
[groans]
[panting]
Come on!
[suspenseful music playing]
Run.
Come on!
Keep running!
Go. go. go!
Go. go. go. go. go!
Hard right!
[Nora yells]
[all screaming]
[dramatic music playing]
DOMBÅS AIR AMBULANCE BASE
DOVRE MOUNTAINS
I wonder…
How did you find out the secret
of how to communicate with him?
[Nora] Hmm.
I got quiet.
And I began to listen.
Really listen to him.
Listen with my heart.
I've convinced him to go outside.
I've done it once before.
I remember he was so careful then.
He just sat there.
He looked up at the starry night…
Then returned to that black cave.
He felt safe there.
[sniffles]
- [wind whips]
- [paper rustling]
The Pilgrims used this route.
What did you say?
The pilgrimage to Nidaros
and the Saint Olaf Spring.
Look here.
If you follow the tracks of the troll.
you'll see it goes north.
over Dovre.
straight for… Trondheim.
We have a full tank.
Good to go.
What's going on?
The troll's pilgrimaging north.
That's something.
[Tobias] Olaf showed no mercy.
[groan echoes]
[Tobias] The age of the trolls
was over.
It's something my father talked about.
Um… oh. um… He talked about
the Christianization of Norway
and the troll massacre.
And how Saint Olaf drove the trolls
out of the country forever.
[tense music playing]
In those days. Nidaros was the capital.
It was from there
that Olaf ruled the country.
SAINT OLAF
NIDAROS CATHEDRAL
He wants revenge.
[gripping music plays]
- [blades thwacking]
- [music fades]
Esther Johanne Tiller.
Welcome to Trondheim.
- Nora Tid...
- I can tell you're a Tidemann.
You're the spitting image
of your late father.
[chuckles] Is that a compliment?
Ah… Tobias was an interesting specimen.
He was a hoot at parties. that's for sure.
- "Rai. rai." Andreas Isaksen.
- You're with the rest of the funky bunch.
We can do this all day. Disserway!
Nidaros Cathedral.
Built approximately between 1070 and 1300.
Until the Reformation.
it was called Cor Norvegiae.
"The Heart of Norway."
The Church ruled the country
from here with an iron fist.
Well. I'm sure
you haven't come for a lecture.
We're here to find the tomb of Saint Olaf.
That's all we got.
Well. the crazy nuts
didn't fall too far from the tree.
Disserway!
[Nora] We think the troll is coming here
to get revenge on Saint Olaf.
- Huh.
- I read your book.
You have a theory that Olaf's remains are
still somewhere in the cathedral. right?
Folks always say. "Think outside the box."
But sometimes the answer
lies within the box.
Sometimes.
it's staring you smack in the kisser.
Take us to this box of yours.
[laughing]
Like all beautiful things in this world.
Nidaros Cathedral's underbelly
is less flattering than its exterior.
- Disserway!
- What the heck does "Disserway" mean?
It means "This way." Isaksen.
Ah. should've known.
I've often asked myself.
"If Olaf was so important to the Church.
why hide him down here?"
Yeah. That is.
unless they had a disagreement.
Olaf and the Church.
Yeah. Why would you hide
something you're proud of?
Right.
People have poked and prodded down here
until they go wonky in the noggin
and came up with diddly squat.
but by all means. knock yourselves out.
Where should we start?
The same symbol from the cave. right?
[Esther] Oh. yeah.
When I found this room.
there was a real hullabaloo.
Everyone thought we'd found the tomb.
Maybe he was here for a while
and then they moved his body?
God only knows by whom or why.
Maybe it's time to get going?
[Esther] Not much more to see.
That's the story.
At least that's what we know so far.
- [cracks]
- [gasps]
- [clattering]
Ah…
- Step aside.
- Uh. sorry.
I swear I barely touched it.
I think it was already broken.
It's an easy fix.
Step aside.
Sorry.
Huh?
A spear in the belly.
This is…
[sighing] Oh…
[cracking]
- They're his wounds.
- What do you mean. wounds?
That's the spot where Olaf got stabbed
by Tore Hund and his gang
during the Battle of Stiklestad.
- First a chop in the thigh.
- [sword clangs]
Then a spear in the belly.
[stabbing sound]
The final one…
A sword… in the neck.
[stabbing sound]
[gasps]
[sighs deeply]
There has to be something we can…
Here… let's try this.
- [grunts]
- [clanking]
[tense music plays]
[Marion] Nora. Here.
Yeah. first… first in the thigh.
Then. a spear in the belly.
[clanking. ratcheting]
Catch.
And then. a sword to the neck.
[ratcheting. clanking]
[cracking]
[Andreas] Hey. hey. hey!
I'll help you.
[Nora] Okay.
[cracking]
[straining]
[clanking. settling]
[ratcheting. clinks]
- [cracks]
- [all gasping]
- [gasping]
- [thudding]
The answer lies within the box.
Staring you smack in the kisser.
[soaring music rises]
[Andreas] Look at all this water.
[Nora] Maybe this is the Olaf Spring.
[gasps softly]
- Okay.
- Wait!
You can't just barge in and open it.
This is Olaf the Holy!
I mean. it… it might be.
- We have to open it first.
- This is Olaf.
Oh. I feel it.
Esther. I get it.
I respect… your respect here. I understand
the historic nature of this moment.
For all we know.
this grave might give us the answers.
and already our time is running thin.
[Esther] Mm.
Yeah. alright. let's do it.
But…
Please respect the dead. for the Church.
Naturally. Of course we will.
[grunts]
[Esther] Oh.
[inhales sharply]
[exclaims]
Look at my king.
Hey. good-lookin'.
So. this is where you've been hiding?
You old rascal. you.
[Esther chuckles]
Huh? Well. that's strange…
- What's wrong?
- It's Bæsing.
Olaf's sword.
Still intact. after so many years.
[Kris] It's silver.
Which we all know is
a useless material for weapons.
It's too soft.
But still. all that aside. it won't rust.
[Nora] What's this?
- Oh. careful. Take it easy.
- [Nora] Right.
No way. that can't be.
Time to call home.
Can you please hold it still
for just a second?
That's good. And down.
Almost…
Got it.
[Sigrid chuckles]
Congrats. you just finished a quest
and leveled up to the final boss.
Look.
"Trolls shall not
from this land be expelled."
- This changes everything.
- [Andreas] Hmm?
"For all injustices
inflicted upon the Jotun.
we hereby grant them their…
"Home."
Jotunheimen.
So he wanted to give them a home.
Not eradicate them.
That's the reason.
They murdered him for it.
The Church wanted to continue
to eradicate the trolls.
That means Olaf isn't the target anymore.
He's going after
the backbone of our nation.
It's all of us.
[dramatic music plays]
Tragedy strikes again
as another troll attack shocks Norway.
After unconfirmed reports.
it became clear yesterday
that a new giant monster is
on the loose in the country
where Hemsedal was attacked.
Videos of the creature have circulated
widely on social media.
[woman recording] Aw. how cute!
- Viewer discretion is advised.
- [screaming]
How can the same shit happen
to the same country twice?
How many trolls do they have over there?
If they can fake a moon landing.
you bet they can fake that troll.
[in French] Images from Norway show
the destruction caused by the monster.
[in English] An unlucky couple in Lesja
had their house destroyed
by a troll for the second time.
[in Filipino] There are reports
of loss of life…
[in Spanish] …both military and civilian.
Simply terrible.
[in English] The latest
observations place the…
…monster on the path towards
one of Norway's largest cities.
Trondheim was our capital
a thousand years ago.
Hm. Are we witnessing a troll king
attempting to reclaim his throne?
The Norwegian Army has so far failed
in their attempts to stop the creature.
[in Korean] The incident has sparked
an international outcry.
[in Russian] If this is
a threat to the motherland.
we will take control of the situation.
[in English] Is the country of Norway
about to be plunged back
into the Dark Ages?
[cameras clicking]
The surreal events over the last
24 hours have shocked us all.
We must also face the reality…
That Trondheim is lost.
- [clamoring]
- Prime Minister!
What is the current strategy?
Currently. we're doing everything we can
to evacuate the people of Trondheim.
What's the strategy after Trondheim?
That… uh…
I will address that at a later time.
Thank you.
- [clamoring fades]
- [general] We've exhausted our options.
The target broke our ranks and is set to
arrive in Trondheim in two hours. Major.
We have deployed forces to evacuate
as many people as possible.
- Get out of there.
- [Kris] Copy that.
We can't leave now.
No way. Can't leave yet.
Okay. but Kris. if you…
Huh?
If we bail now. I couldn't sleep at night.
We can't let this happen.
Not a chance.
People…
Good people. sacrificed their lives.
We resist in their memory.
- Okay.
- Count me in.
Andreas…
You… maybe you should…
Yeah. you have a family to think about.
That's why I can't go.
If Trondheim falls…
It won't stop here.
I'm staying.
Well. I live here.
Okay. but do we have a plan?
Bullets and missiles have no effect.
Church bells are effective to an extent.
- Uh. that…
- Do we know what Olaf did back then?
What weapons were used?
Other than sunshine. of course.
Bæsing.
The silver sword?
Would silver work?
I guess.
I assume magic is infused in the silver.
The only thing magical about silver
is it won't corrode.
- It can withstand water.
- [Kris] That's right.
Are we sure it's the silver?
Don't look at me.
I'm not following any of this.
[pensive orchestral music playing]
[sizzling]
[Nora gasping softly]
[cracking]
[gasps sharply]
- Holy water.
- Yeah.
That's what Olaf used on the sword.
Like the nursery rhyme.
Mm-hmm.
Okay. I gotta say.
first of all. that's crazy.
And second. there's not enough water
in that bird bath for this operation.
What do we do?
Well…
- Hm?
- [Esther scoffs]
Are you guys joking right now?
[Esther chuckles]
Inside that tomb. we've uncovered
one of the world's most mythical springs.
- That's for sure.
- The Olaf Spring.
- We have ammo.
- We need people.
Game on.
[siren whoops]
[man on megaphone]
Trondheim is being evacuated!
Everyone on the buses!
Up here!
People of Trondheim!
A storm is raging at the edge of the city.
I understand how easy it is to run.
I promise you.
the sun that set over us all tonight...
Okay. there's a psycho-troll
right around the corner.
We have no time to waste.
and our plan is insane!
Who will fight with us?
Right here! I'm down!
For Trondheim!
[shouts rising]
[stirring music plays]
[tolling loudly]
Great. thank you so much.
Perfect!
Great work. guys!
[indistinct radio chatter]
[man] Hurry up! Go!
Alright. everyone! The enemy's moving!
Keep up the pace! Faster. faster!
[indistinct shouting]
[music fades]
Yes. Siggy.
I promise. they put me on… bell duty.
- Let me call you back. okay?
- [Sigrid] Okay.
So. what's your take… on faith?
When my mother died.
I thought that if I could
believe in all of it hard enough.
she would watch over me from up there.
But… you can't force it.
You have to let faith happen. So…
I have faith she's watching.
I also have faith in you and your plan.
Although you are a little bonkers.
We're standing together
because you're our captain.
It's because of you. really.
What if we fail?
It's always better to follow your heart
and fail than to go against your beliefs.
[exhales deeply]
Yeah.
You're gonna be a great papa.
[chuckling sigh]
[exhales deeply]
I hope you're right.
[stirring music plays]
[overlapping shouts]
It has to work.
No plan B. right?
[sighs]
Looks like you could use a fistful of Zen.
What?
I ordered your latest book and read it.
It was a real hoot.
You should write another.
[chuckles]
I'm afraid nobody's a fan of sequels.
Oh. that's a load of bull.
Everyone loves a good sequel.
[chuckles]
- [distant rumbling]
- [objects rattling]
- [deep rumbling]
- [creaking]
[distant rumbling]
[indistinct radio chatter]
- [distant explosions popping]
- [alarms blaring]
9-8. wait for my command.
[man on radio] Copy that. Major.
[sinister music plays]
[low rumbling growl]
Okay. we're ready.
Isaksen. alright. it's showtime. Go ahead.
- Engage!
- Let's play these bells.
[tolling loudly]
[roaring]
[rousing music plays]
9-8. open fire!
Go. go. go!
[deep groaning]
[roars]
It's having an effect. He's hurt.
[Andreas screaming]
- Come on!
- [shouts]
[bell clanging]
Isaksen! Status?
[man over radio] Oh God! Run!
Go. go!
9-8. retreat!
Get out of there. Retreat now!
Come and get it.
[high-pitched whirring]
[groaning]
Oh. my God. it's working.
Or not.
Let's fall back now.
[roars fiercely]
[Kris] Fall back now!
Run!
[suspenseful music playing]
Isaksen! Fall back!
[distant bellowing]
[bellowing continues]
Beautiful…
[dark music rises]
[roaring]
Monster mash.
[energetic music playing]
[both grunting]
[all gasp]
- Nora!
- He's killing him!
Our weapons have no effect.
His skin is bulletproof.
- His insides are vulnerable.
- Huh?
It has an internal ecosystem. A heart's
pumping everything through the body.
If we can get water inside the system so
it spreads. we can kill him from within.
How do we do that?
[distant groan]
[rock clattering]
I have an idea. If we position
the helicopter right on top of him.
we can drop the bomb
straight into his mouth!
Isaksen. you have seen
way too many movies.
[suspenseful music plays]
How… how many bombs are there?
[groaning]
This is the last one.
- Whatever we do. we do it now!
- Yeah.
Stall him. alright?
Kris! I need a pilot!
[suspenseful music continues]
[rasping]
Ugh.
Just curious.
what do you have in store to make
him look up and open his mouth?
Uh… let's get up there.
and I'll improvise a plan.
Great idea.
[weapon clicks]
- You seem lonely down here.
- More the merrier.
[inhales sharply]
No!
- There goes the detonator!
- Huh?
I said we just lost the detonator!
- I have to take the chopper down.
- [strains]
Isaksen! The only way
to detonate it now is manually!
How do you do that?
Tell me how to do it manually.
You need an explosive.
Something like this would do the trick.
A hand grenade.
The problem is that the pin must be pulled
right before the bomb enters his mouth.
So then… someone has to jump with the bomb
and pull the pin on the way down?
Yeah!
[deep roar]
No.
No. no!
[roars loudly]
Get us in position.
Isaksen.
It's time to go.
- Nora?
- No!
Nora! Run!
Never!
Kris. it's now or never!
This thing… it won't stop here!
It's up to us!
[grim music playing]
Nora!
[weapon clicking]
[shrieks]
[blades thwacking]
Siggy!
- Andreas.
- [Andreas] Hi. honey.
You went on a side quest?
No. no. it's like Spock says.
"The needs of the many…"
Tell me you're joking.
We're in position.
[snarling roar]
[Sigrid] What… what are you doing?
"The needs of the many…"
[solemn music playing]
"…outweigh the needs of the few."
[breathes shakily]
[sighs softly]
Please. Siggy. tell our little miracle
that papa was...
[Sigrid gasps]
That Papa…
[grunting]
That Papa was…
[epic orchestral music playing]
[music fades]
…Superman.
[heartbeat thumping]
[ethereal music playing]
[airy vocalizations lilting]
[inhales deeply]
[low growl]
[inhales sharply]
[music turns tense]
[muffled explosion rumbles]
[groans. snarls]
[dark music playing]
[sizzling. crackling]
[bellowing roar]
[stone clattering]
[crackling thumps]
[crumbling. sizzling]
[triumphant music swells]
- [sizzling stone hisses]
- [music fades]
[wind whistling]
[sobbing breath]
[exhales deeply]
[exclaims gently]
[ash sifting]
[low deep roar]
[Andreas] But it doesn't end here.
[gentle music playing]
No. this fairy tale has only just begun.
ESTHER JOHANNE TILLER
OLAF BENEATH US
Because when something falls…
It can rise again.
And when we lose someone…
New life springs up.
Yeah. Little Uhura.
[laughing softly]
[laughs]
[Andreas] New bonds are forged…
- [Marion] The queen of hearts.
- …Old ones grow stronger.
[indistinct chattering]
Even in the darkest of times…
There is hope.
A hope…
[distant thumping]
…to one day find one's family.
[thumping]
And a hope
to find one's way back.
Back to a place where one can feel free.
[bellowing]
A place to call…
Home.
[uplifting music rises]
[sinister orchestral music playing]
[music fades]
[Møller] Is this line secure?
Good.
I have great news. General.
The specimen I was able to save
has. uh…
Developed.
Well. it doesn't look like much right now.
but. uh…
Just… give it some time.
Mm.
[dark music playing]
[snarling hiss]
[high-pitched shriek]
[gripping orchestral music plays]
[lofty orchestral music plays]
[pleasant orchestral music plays]
[music fades out]
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-